1     
English is not an official language of the Swiss Confederation. This translation is 
provided for information purposes only and has no legal fo rce.    
Federal Constitution  
of the Swiss Confederation   
of 18 April 1999 (Status as of 1 January 2021 ) 
 
Preamble  
In the name of Almighty God!   
The Swiss People and the Cantons,  
mindful of their responsibility towards creation,  
resolved to renew their alliance so as to strengthen liberty, democracy, independence 
and peace in a spirit of solidarity and openness towards the world,  
determined to live together with mutual consideration and respect for their diversity,  
conscious of their common achievements and their responsibility towards future 
generations,  
and in the knowledge that only those who use their freedom remain free, and that the 
strength of a people is measured by the well -being of its weakest members,  
adopt the following Constitution1: 
Title 1  General Provisions  
Art. 1 The Swiss Confederation  
The People and the Cantons of Zurich, Bern, Lucerne, Uri, Schwyz, Obwalden and 
Nidwalden, Glarus, Zug, Fribourg, Solothurn, Basel Stadt and Basel Landschaft, 
Schaffhausen, Appenzell Ausserrhoden and Appenz ell Innerrhoden, St. Gallen, 
Graubnden, Aargau, Thurgau, Ticino, Vaud, Valais, Neuchtel, Geneva, and Jura 
form the Swiss Confederation.  
Art. 2 Aims  
1 The Swiss Confederation shall protect the liberty and rights of the people and 
safeguard the independenc e and security of the country.  
  
 AS 2007  5225  
1 Adopted by the popular vote on 18  April  1999 (FedD of 18  Dec. 1998, FCD of 
11 Aug.  1999; AS  1999 2556;  BBl 1997 I 1, 1999 162 5986 ). 101 101  Federal Constitution  
2 101 
2 It shall promote the common welfare, sustainable development, internal cohesion 
and cultural diversity of the country.  
3 It shall ensure the greatest possible equality of opportunity among its citizens.  
4 It is committed to  the long term preservation of natural resources and to a just and 
peaceful international order.  
Art. 3 Cantons  
The Cantons are sovereign except to the extent that their sovereignty is limited by 
the Federal Constitution. They exercise all rights that are not vested in the Confeder-
ation.  
Art. 4 National languages  
The National Languages are German, French, Italian, and Romansh.  
Art. 5 Rule of law  
1 All activities of the state are based on and limited by law.  
2 State activities must be conducted in the public  interest and be proportionate to the 
ends sought.  
3 State institutions and private persons shall act in good faith.  
4 The Confederation and the Cantons shall respect international law.  
Art. 5a2 Subsidiarity  
The principle of subsidiarity must be observed i n the allocation and performance of 
state tasks.  
Art. 6 Individual and collective responsibility  
All individuals shall take responsibility for themselves and shall, according to their 
abilities, contribute to achieving the tasks of the state and society.   
Title 2  Fundamental Rights, Citizenship and Social Goals  
Chapter 1  Fundamental Rights  
Art. 7 Human dignity  
Human dignity must be respected and protected.  
  
2 Adopted by the popular vote on 28  Nov.  2004, in force since 1  Jan. 2008 (FCD of 
3 Oct. 2003, FCD of 26  Jan. 2005, FCD of 7  Nov.  2007; AS 2007 5765; BBl 2002  2291, 
2003  6591, 2005  951).  Swiss Confederation  
3 101 
Art. 8 Equality before the law  
1 Every person is equal before the law.  
2 No person may be discrimina ted against, in particular on grounds of origin, race, 
gender, age, language, social position, way of life, religious, ideological, or political 
convictions, or because of a physical, mental or psychological disability.  
3 Men and women have equal rights. T he law shall ensure their equality, both in law 
and in practice, most particularly in the family, in education, and in the workplace. 
Men and women have the right to equal pay for work of equal value.  
4 The law shall provide for the elimination of inequalities that affect persons with 
disabilities.  
Art. 9 Protection against arbitrary conduct and principle of good faith  
Every person has the right to be treated by state authorities in good faith and in a 
non-arbitrary manner.  
Art. 10 Right to life and  to personal freedom  
1 Every person has the right to life. The death penalty is prohibited.  
2 Every person has the right to personal liberty and in particular to physical and 
mental integrity and to freedom of movement.  
3 Torture and any other form of crue l, inhuman or degrading treatment or punish-
ment are prohibited.  
Art. 11 Protection of children and young people  
1 Children and young people have the right to the special protection of their integrity 
and to the encouragement of their development.  
2 They ma y personally exercise their rights to the extent that their power of judge-
ment allows.  
Art. 12 Right to assistance when in need  
Persons in need and unable to provide for themselves have the right to assistance 
and care, and to the financial means required for a decent standard of living.  
Art. 13 Right to privacy  
1 Every person has the right to privacy in their private and family life and in their 
home, and in relation to their mail and telecommunications.  
2 Every person has the right to be protected against  the misuse of their personal data.  
Art. 14 Right to marry and to have a family  
The right to marry and to have a family is guaranteed.  Federal Constitution  
4 101 
Art. 15 Freedom of religion and conscience  
1 Freedom of religion and conscience is guaranteed.  
2 Every person has the right to choose freely their religion or their philosophical 
convictions, and to profess them alone or in community with others.  
3 Every person has the right to join or to belong to a religious community, and to 
follow religious teachings.  
4 No person may be forced to join or belong to a religious community, to participate 
in a religious act, or to follow religious teachings.  
Art. 16 Freedom of expression and of information  
1 Freedom of expression and of information is guaranteed.  
2 Every person has the rig ht freely to form, express, and impart their opinions.  
3 Every person has the right freely to receive information to gather it from generally 
accessible sources and to disseminate it.  
Art. 17 Freedom of the media  
1 Freedom of the press, radio and televisio n and of other forms of dissemination of 
features and information by means of public telecommunications is guaranteed.  
2 Censorship is prohibited.  
3 The protection of sources is guaranteed.  
Art. 18 Freedom to use any language  
The freedom to use any languag e is guaranteed.  
Art. 19 Right to basic education  
The right to an adequate and free basic education is guaranteed  
Art. 20 Academic freedom  
Freedom of research and teaching is guaranteed.  
Art. 21 Freedom of artistic expression  
Freedom of artistic expression  is guaranteed.  
Art. 22 Freedom of assembly  
1 Freedom of assembly is guaranteed.  
2 Every person has the right to organise meetings and to participate or not to partici-
pate in meetings.  Swiss Confederation  
5 101 
Art. 23 Freedom of association  
1 Freedom of association is guaranteed.  
2 Every person has the right to form, join or belong to an association and to partici-
pate in the activities of an association.  
3 No person may be compelled to join or to belong to an association.  
Art. 24 Freedom of domicile  
1 Swiss citizens have the right to establish their domicile anywhere in the country.  
2 They have the right to leave or to enter Switzerland.  
Art. 25 Protection against expulsion, extradition and deportation  
1 Swiss citizens may not be expelled from Switzerland and may only be extradited to 
a foreign authority with their consent.  
2 Refugees may not be deported or extradited to a state in which they will be perse-
cuted.  
3 No person may be deported to a state in which they face the threat of torture or any 
other form of cruel or inhumane trea tment or punishment.  
Art. 26 Guarantee of ownership  
1 The right to own property is guaranteed.  
2 The compulsory purchase of property and any restriction on ownership that is 
equivalent to compulsory purchase shall be compensated in full.  
Art. 27 Economic f reedom  
1 Economic freedom is guaranteed.  
2 Economic freedom includes in particular the freedom to choose an occupation as 
well as the freedom to pursue a private economic activity.  
Art. 28 Right to form professional associations  
1 Employees, employers and their organisations have the right to join together in 
order to protect their interests, to form associations and to join or not to join such 
associations.  
2 Disputes must wherever possible be resolved through negotiation or mediation.  
3 Strikes and lock o uts are permitted if they relate to employment relations and if 
they do not contravene any requirements to preserve peaceful employment relations 
or to conduct conciliation proceedings.  
4 The law may prohibit certain categories of person from taking strike  action.  Federal Constitution  
6 101 
Art. 29 General procedural guarantees  
1 Every person has the right to equal and fair treatment in judicial and administrative 
proceedings and to have their case decided within a reasonable time.  
2 Each party to a case has the right to be heard.  
3 Any person who does not have sufficient means has the right to free legal advice 
and assistance unless their case appears to have no prospect of success. If it is neces-
sary in order to safeguard their rights, they also have the right to free legal represe n-
tation in court.  
Art. 29 a3 Guarantee of access to the courts  
In a legal dispute, every person has the right to have their case determined by a 
judicial authority. The Confederation and the Cantons may by law preclude the 
determination by the courts of cer tain exceptional categories of case.  
Art. 30 Judicial proceedings  
1 Any person whose case falls to be judicially decided has the right to have their case 
heard by a legally constituted, competent, independent and impartial court. Ad hoc 
courts are prohibit ed. 
2 Unless otherwise provided by law, any person against whom civil proceedings 
have been raised has the right to have their case decided by a court within the juris-
diction in which they reside.  
3 Unless the law provides otherwise, court hearings and the  delivery of judgments 
shall be in public.  
Art. 31 Deprivation of liberty  
1 No person may be deprived of their liberty other than in the circumstances and in 
the manner provided for by the law.  
2 Any person deprived of their liberty has the right to be not ified without delay and 
in a language they can understand of the reasons for their detention and of their 
rights. They must be given the opportunity to exercise their rights, in particular, the 
right to have their next -of-kin informed.  
3 Any person in pre -trial detention has the right to be brought before a court without 
delay. The court decides whether the person must remain in detention or be released. 
Any person in pre -trial detention has the right to have their case decided within a 
reasonable time.  
4 Any person who has been deprived of their liberty by a body other than a court has 
the right to have recourse to a court at any time. The court shall decide as quickly as 
possible on the legality of their detention.  
  
3  Adopted by the popular vote on 12  March  2000, in force since 1  Jan. 2007 (FedD of 
8 Oct. 1999, FCD of 17  May 2000, FedD of 8  March  2005; AS 2002  3148, 2006  1059; 
BBl 1997  I 1, 1999 8633, 2000  2990, 2001  4202).  Swiss Confederation  
7 101 
Art. 32 Criminal proceedings  
1 Every pe rson is presumed innocent until they have been found guilty by a legally 
enforceable judgment.  
2 Every accused person has the right to be notified as quickly and comprehensively 
as possible of the charge brought against them. They must be given the opportu nity 
to assert their rights to a proper defence.  
3 Every convicted person has the right to have their conviction reviewed by a higher 
court, with the exception of cases in which the Federal Supreme Court sits at first 
instance.  
Art. 33 Right of petition  
1 Every person has the right, without prejudice, to petition the authorities.  
2 The authorities must acknowledge receipt of such petitions.  
Art. 34 Political rights  
1 Political rights are guaranteed.  
2 The guarantee of political rights protects the freedom o f the citizen to form an 
opinion and to give genuine expression to his or her will.  
Art. 35 Upholding of fundamental rights  
1 Fundamental rights must be upheld throughout the legal system.  
2 Whoever acts on behalf of the state is bound by fundamental right s and is under a 
duty to contribute to their implementation.  
3 The authorities shall ensure that fundamental rights, where appropriate, apply to 
relationships among private persons.  
Art. 36 Restrictions on fundamental rights  
1 Restrictions on fundamental rights must have a legal basis. Significant restrictions 
must have their basis in a federal act. The foregoing does not apply in cases of 
serious and immediate danger where no other course of action is possible.  
2 Restrictions on fundamental rights must be  justified in the public interest or for the 
protection of the fundamental rights of others.  
3 Any restrictions on fundamental rights must be proportionate.  
4 The essence of fundamental rights is sacrosanct.   Federal Constitution  
8 101 
Chapter 2  Citizenship and Political Rights  
Art. 37 Citizenship  
1 Any person who is a citizen of a commune and of the Canton to which that com-
mune belongs is a Swiss citizen.  
2 No person may be given preferential treatment or suffer prejudice because of their 
citizenship. The foregoing does not apply to  regulations on political rights in citi-
zens communes and corporations or to participation in the assets thereof, unless 
cantonal legislation provides otherwise.  
Art. 38 Acquisition and deprivation of citizenship  
1 The Confederation shall regulate the acq uisition and deprivation of citizenship by 
birth, marriage or adoption. It shall also regulate the deprivation of Swiss citizenship 
on other grounds, together with the reinstatement of citizenship.  
2 It shall legislate on the minimum requirements for the n aturalisation of foreign 
nationals by the Cantons and grant naturalisation permits.  
3 It shall enact simplified regulations on the naturalisation of:  
a. third generation immigrants;  
b. stateless children.4 
Art. 39 Exercise of political rights  
1 The Confederation shall regulate the exercise of political rights in federal matters, 
and the Cantons shall regulate their exercise at cantonal and communal matters.  
2 Political rights are exercised in the commune in which a citizen resides, although 
the Confe deration and the Cantons may provide for exceptions.  
3 No person may exercise their political rights contemporaneously in more than one 
Canton.  
4 A Canton may provide that a person newly registered as a resident may exercise 
the right to vote in cantonal a nd communal matters only after a waiting period of a 
maximum of three months of permanent settlement.  
Art. 40 The Swiss abroad  
1 The Confederation shall encourage relations among the Swiss abroad and their 
relations with Switzerland. It may support organis ations that pursue this objective.  
2 It shall legislate on the rights and obligations of the Swiss abroad, in particular in 
relation to the exercise of political rights in the Confederation, the fulfilment of the 
obligation to perform military or alternati ve service, welfare support and social 
security.  
  
4 Adopted by the popular vote on 12 Feb. 2017, in force since 12 Feb. 2017 (FedD of  
30 Sept. 2016, FCD of 13 April 2017  AS 2017 2643; BBl 2015  769 1327, 2017  3387).  Swiss Confederation  
9 101  
Chapter 3  Social Objectives  
